# May 8, 2025 Class Notes - Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning

## HVAC Control/Modules

Receives input form the driver/passenger and sends an electrical command to thte component needed to carry out the request of the input.
Dual Zone climate allows both driver and passenger to set their own desired temperature settings.

If something is wrong with the control modules, check the fuses first.
If you don't hear the blower montor, it's the power.

## Blower Motor/Resistor

Blower motor come in many different shapes and sizes. It uses a resistor and 12v to operate at various speeds.
Blower motors can be mounted in different areas of the vehicle.

If it only works at one speed, it's the resistor.

## HVAC Case Actuators

If you are still feeling warm air even though you have the heater off, it's an actuator.

## Heater Components and Operation

Touch the two hoses.
If one hose is hot and the other is not, the heater core is clogged. Use a water hose to run water to flush it out.
If both hoses are hot, the actuators might not be working.

## AC Compressor

Belt driver.
Engages clutch when commanded by ECM
Converts low pressure gas (freon) into high pressure gas (freon).

There is a senor that tells how much freon is in the system. The system must be nearly full. If the freon is low, the clutch will not engage.

## Evaporator core

Holds freon.
Allows cold air when blown through the fins.
Heater core and Evaporator core are separated by a blend door allowing temperature variation.

## Condenser

Removes heat from high pressure gas converting it to high conpressed liquid.
Sits in front of the radiator and it has inlet and outlet air conditioning hoses attached to move freon.

## Cabin Filter

Replace every 15,000 miles and or as required.
Keeps clean air blowing inside vehicle.

