# 2025-03-06 Class Notes

## Batteries, Starting, and Charging Systems

The battery powers the car.

## Fuses

Fuses are rated by current at which they are designed to blow. It's a safety, a fuse will blow based on the current that is drawn.

A "short" can be caused by a power surge or bad grounding.

Each component has an amperage (the fuse will protect up to X amps). Never have bigger fuses than the amperage.

## Batteries

Three types of batteries:

1. Glass mat batteries (auto stop battery - new cars that turn off the engine when the car is stopped)
2. Lead acid batteries (most common)
3. Lithium ion batteries (used in hybrids and electric vehicles)

Batteries have 6 cells; 3 positive, 3 negative
The open circut of a battery is 12.6v

Electrolyte - battery acid (mixture of sulfuric acid and distilled water)

Centents:

+ negative plate
+ positive plate
+ container
+ Electrolyte

CCA = cold cranking amperage. The load in amperes that a battery can deliver for 30 seconds at 0 ferhient without the voltage dropping below 7.2 volts.

CA Rating = cranking amps rating - current a battery can deliver for 30 seconds at 32 ferhient

Should test every 6 months.

## Load testing

One-half the cold crank rating (400 CCA / 2 = 200 ampers)

## Charging System

The alternator recharges the battery and supplies electricity when the engine is running.

Runs at 13.5 - 15.5v in order to charge the battery

## AC Generator Operation of a Alternator

Product alternating current.
The AC must be converted, or rectified, into direct current, DC.
The AC passes through diodes.

## Starting System

The starter motor starts the car by cranking the crankshaft
